
Dashboard README
Project Description
This project is a web dashboard to visualize and analyze animals eligible for selection for their purposes. The dashboard provides various functionalities such as displaying key metrics, generating interactive visualizations, and allowing users to explore and filter data.

Tools Used
Python: Used as the primary programming language.
Dash: Web framework for building the interactive dashboard.
MongoDB: Utilized as the database for storing and retrieving data.
Dash Framework: Utilized as the web base for displaying the filtered, sorted, and contextualized database information.
Dash was chosen as the framework for building the web application due to its simplicity, flexibility, and compatibility with Python. Key features of Dash include:

This web based application can be used to filter through many different animal types (species) to search for specific animals that meet the user’s requirements. The filters for breeds are selectable via the dropdown, however all categories can be manually typed in as well but will only filter for that specific entry. All of these filters are compatible and can be used with one another.NOTE: New breeds will have to be manually added by adding their breed type to the dropdown option selection as shown below.
The pie chart is actively updated as more species are added. Currently the database only possesses 5 categories of species, though can support more. Certain keys can be selected to only be shown to compare specific species as well.
NOTE: Adding too many species may result in the pie chart displaying incorrectly. If a multitude of species are to be added take use of the ‘Other’ category for less common species to avoid this problem

I mainly write programs in such a way that they're modular and easy to understand sometimes with comments if I feel the function of a particular part of the code iesn't easy to understand. In this case specifically, I built this code to work specifically with the database given. However, with a few adjustments to the parameters this code could easily be used in different databases as well by allowing the filtering to be more useful for one's own identifying columns/values.

As a computer scientiest I approach problems by first laying out what is needed to solve the problem and then defining the steps to solve to create the solution afterwards that align. Once I start to create the code I try to always make it modular and readable for anyone looking to use my code so that they always have the possibilty to change it after the fact for their own needs. This assignment was unique because I was working with an already created selection of data that had to be sorted and displayed in a certain way. I think this is prohably more accurate to actual work environment work as there will typically be work done before you that you must build upon for larger use and later modification to continue on. I think this assignment will be very helpful in helpin gclients with their own data and needs down the line, as it teaches how to manipulate data for a desired outcome.

Computer scientists are a necessary requirement for most businesses as in this modern age people like to use websites, apps, and data will be collected that needs to be handled. Without computer scientists a company would likely have to pay royalties for a website, have to outsource servicin gof the website which could also cause long down times and be expensive, and will have slower updates which would eventually actch up and make the site outdated. Especially for faster moving businesses, having a person to handle the more technological needs of the company can save it a lot of money, time, and inconveniece.

If you’d like to suggest or contribute to this project feel free to consult me.

Created by:
Tyler Strickland

Project Status: 
Completed
